---
layout: page
title: Curriculum Vitae
description: Publications and more
image: assets/images/cal.jpg
nav-menu: true
order: 3
---

# Jonathan H. Yu, Ph.D

#### I love finding solutions to tough problems using a multi-disciplinary approach. Some of my specialties are plasma physics, coding, fusion energy, machine learning, lasers, optics, imaging, optical spectroscopy, mass spectrometry, photography, and riding waves. I find the best results come from striking a balance between big-picture thinking, attention to detail, and risk taking.

#### My core skills include critical and creative thinking, problem solving, interpersonal skills, Python programming, physics simulations, data analysis, data modeling, data visualization, communication, and collaboration.



<br>
<a href="#summary"> Professional Summary</a><br />
<a href="#education"> Education</a><br />
<a href="#experience">Professional Experience</a><br />
<a href="#grants">Grants Awarded</a><br />
<a href="#publications">Publications</a><br />



<h8 id = "summary">  </h8>
<br>
# Professional Summary
* Perfomed high fidelity computer simulations of power exhaust in magnetically confined plasma devices known as tokamaks.
* Initiated and coded world's first deep neural networks for analyzing data from multi-million dollar ion beam facilities, and quantified uncertainty of the neural network predictions.
* Led the successful development of world's first time-resolved laser based material diagnostic after winning $445,000 in grant awards, and wrote complete set of Python code for data acquisition, preprocessing, and analysis.
* Successfully designed, installed, and wrote analysis code for a fast camera diagnostic at the top U.S. fusion science facility with budget of $120M/year.
* Developed novel imaging and signal processing techniques and achieved first-ever visible images of a variety of tokamak plasma phenomena.
* Designed and executed collaborative research projects, and contributed to winning over $10M in grants to perform state of the art physics research.
* Published over 90 articles in refereed journals and contributed to more than 135 presentations (40 first-author) at international conferences and meetings.






<h8 id = "education">  </h8>
<br>
# Education
* Ph.D., Physics, University of California San Diego
* M.S., Physics, University of California San Diego
* B.A., Physics, University of California Berkeley



<h8 id = "experience">  </h8>
<br>
# Professional Experience

### Scientist, DIII-D National Tokamak Facility, General Atomics, 2020 - present
* Simulating plasma power exhaust in current and next-generation tokamaks
* Iterating on design concepts and modeling for plasma divertors using target shaping and closure
* Exploring magnetic geometries to optimize power dissipation
* Implementing higher accuracy in computer models including plasma drifts

### Scientist, Center for Energy Research, UC San Diego, 2012 - 2020
* Designed experiments on plasma-material interactions to push fusion energy closer to a viable energy source
* Pioneered novel diagnostics for materials and plasmas, including laser induced desorption spectroscopy and fast imaging
* Led investigations on plasma-material interactions such as hydrogen storage in materials and the impact of extreme heat pulses on surface morphology 
* Developed software for optical spectroscopy, pyrometry, and ion/electron surface analysis
* Designed, procured, and commissioned high power laser systems for cutting edge material science research

### Co-founder, Cornsoft, 2010 - 2018
* Designed and developed Smart Seat, the first seating chart and attendance iOS app for teachers which has been used by over 10,000 people
* Designed and developed PixSort, a photo organization app based on automatic and user-generated metadata tags

### Collaborating Scientist, DIII-D National Tokamak Facility, General Atomics, 2006 - 2011
* Created novel plasma imaging techniques and capabilities at the DIII-D tokamak and at basic plasma facilities at UC San Diego and UCLA
* Detected and analyzed high-energy "runaway" electrons, which are a potential show-stopper for fusion reactors
* Achieved first visible-light imaging measurements of core magnetohydrodynamic waves in a tokamak, including tearing modes and sawtooth instabilities
* Measured fast ions in DIII-D using a narrowband interference filter, detecting Doppler-shifted D-alpha light generated by charge-exchange events
* Investigated plasma fast shutdown schemes to avoid uncontrolled plasma disruptions in future high power tokamaks

### Postdoctoral Researcher, Center for Energy Research, UC San Diego, 2004 – 2006
* Measured plasma flow with Mach probes and compared with the phase velocity of plasma fluctuations from Langmuir probes for shear/turbulence interaction studies
* Measured angular distribution of sputtered particles for modeling ion thruster lifetimes

### Consulting, DULY Research Inc., 2001 – 2003
* Won Phase I ($100,000) and Phase II ($750,000) Department of Energy Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) grants titled “An Ultra Low Emittance DC/RF Photoelectron Injector,” 2001–2002
* Wrote proposal for National Institute of Health SBIR grant titled “A Liquid Jet Target for Laser Driven Proton Radiotherapy,” 2001


### Researcher for Doctoral Study, Department of Physics, UCSD, 1999 – 2004
* Research was published and highlighted by the world's premier physics letter journal *Physical Review Letters*
* Achieved first observations and measurements of fluid echoes in a pure electron plasma. Wrote code for image analysis and first-principles modeling. Through detailed comparison to theory, explicitly demonstrated the reversible nature of spatial Landau damping, which touched on deep questions regarding the asymmetry of time.



<h8 id = "grants">  </h8>
<br>
# Grants Awarded

* **$245,000** Department of Energy (DOE) grant for the development of laser-based material diagnostics (2019)
* **$200,000** DOE grant for research and development of laser induced desorption spectroscopy (LIDS) (2017)
* **$2,200,000** DOE grant to perform novel research on the interactions between plasma and materials at UC San Diego, contributor (2018)
* **$1,900,000** DOE grant for plasma-material interaction research at UC San Diego, contributor (2015)
* **$400,000** grant from ITER, the international experimental fusion reactor, to test techniques for the safe operation of a fusion power plant using novel ideas for in-situ cleaning of reactor wall materials (2013)
* **$1,700,000** DOE grant for plasma-material interaction research at UC San Diego, contributor (2012)
* **$1,500,000** DOE grant for plasma-material interaction research at UC San Diego, contributor (2009)
* **$200,000** American Recovery and Reinvestment Act grant for development of fast imaging hardware, experimental design and execution, analysis, and programming analysis software at the DIII-D national fusion facility (2009)
* **$1,400,000** DOE grant for plasma-material interaction research at UC San Diego, contributor (2006)
* **$850,000** Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Phase I and Phase II grants (2001-2002)



<a href="#top">Go to top</a>

<h8 id = "publications">  </h8>
<br>
# Publications

1.	J.H. Yu, M.J. Baldwin, M.J. Simmonds, and A. Založnik, <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/90.pdf ">Time-Resolved Laser-Induced Desorption Spectroscopy (LIDS) for Quantified In-Situ Hydrogen Isotope Retention Measurement and Removal from Plasma Facing Materials,</a>  Rev. of Sc. Instr. 90, 073502 (2019), chosen by the journal editors as Editor’s Pick and highlighted on the journal’s homepage.

2.	M.J. Baldwin, R.P. Doerner, D. Nishijima, M. Patino, M.J. Simmonds, G. Tynan, J.H. Yu and A. Založnik, <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/89.pdf ">Plasma materials interaction research using the PISCES linear plasma devices,</a>  submitted to TOFE conference proceedings (2019).

3.	M.J. Simmonds, T. Schwarz-Selinger, J.H. Yu, M.J. Baldwin, R.P. Doerner, G.R. Tynan, <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/88.pdf ">Isolating the detrapping of deuterium in heavy ion damaged tungsten via partial thermal desorption,</a>  J. Nucl. Mater. 522, 158 (2019).

4.	J.H. Yu, M.J. Simmonds, M.J. Baldwin, R.P. Doerner, <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/87.pdf ">Deuterium retention in re-solidified tungsten and beryllium,</a>  Nucl. Mat. and Energy 18, 297 (2019).

5.	M.J. Simmonds, J.H. Yu, Y.Q. Wang, M.J. Baldwin, R.P. Doerner, G.R. Tynan, <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/86.pdf ">Expanding the capability of reaction-diffusion codes using pseudo traps and temperature partitioning: Applied to hydrogen uptake and release from tungsten,</a>  J. Nucl. Mat. 508, 472 (2018).

6.	I. Bykov, C.P. Chrobak, T. Abrams, D.L. Rudakov, E.A. Unterberg, W.R. Wampler, E.M. Hollmann, R.A. Moyer, J.A. Boedo, B. Stahl, E.T. Hinson, J.H. Yu, C.J. Lasnier, M. Makowski, A.G. McLean, <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/85.pdf ">Tungsten erosion by unipolar arcing in DIII-D,</a>  Phys. Scr. T170, 014034 (2017).

7.	J.H. Yu, M.J. Baldwin, R.P. Doerner, <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/84.pdf ">Cracking and surface roughening of beryllium–tungsten alloy due to transient heating,</a>  Phys. Scripta 2017, T170 (2017).

8.	Simmonds, M.J., Wang, Y.Q., Barton, J.L., Baldwin, M.J., Yu, J.H., Doerner, R.P., Tynan, G.R., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/83.pdf ">Reduced deuterium retention in simultaneously damaged and annealed tungsten,</a>  J. Nucl. Mat. 494, 67 (2017).

9.	Yu, J.H., Simmonds, M., Baldwin, M.J., and Doerner, R.P., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/82.pdf ">Deuterium desorption from tungsten using laser heating,</a>  Nucl. Mat. and Energy 12, 749 (2017).

10.	Nishijima, D., Baldwin, M.J., Doerner, R.P., Tanigawa, H., Wang, P., Yu, J.H., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/81.pdf ">Sputtering properties of RAFM steels under high-flux He plasma exposure,</a>  Nucl. Mat. and Energy 12, 1319 (2017).

11.	Ibano, K., Nishijima, D., Yu, J.H., Baldwin, M.J., Doerner, R.P., Takizuka, T., Lee, H.T., Ueda, Y., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/80.pdf ">Observation and particle simulation of vaporized W, Mo, and Be in PISCES-B plasma for vapor-shielding studies,</a>  Nucl. Mat. and Energy 12, 278 (2017).

12.	Doerner, R.P., Baldwin, M.J., Simmonds, M., Yu, J.H., Buzi, L., Schwarz-Selinger, T., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/79.pdf ">Quantitatively measuring the influence of helium in plasma-exposed tungsten,</a>  Nucl. Mat. and Energy 12, 372 (2017).

13.	Doerner, R.P., Baldwin, M.J., Lynch, T.C., and Yu, J.H., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/78.pdf ">Retention in tungsten resulting from extremely high fluence plasma exposure,</a>  Nucl. Mat. and Energy 9, 89 (2016).

14.	Yu, J.H., De Temmerman, G. , Doerner, R.P., Van Den Berg, M.A., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/77.pdf ">Study of temporal pulse shape effects on W using simulations and laser heating,</a>  Phys. Scr. 167, 014033 (2016).

15.	Hollmann, E.M., Yu, J.H., Doerner, R.P., Nishijima, D. and Seraydarian, R.P., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/76.pdf ">Observation of increased space-charge limited thermionic electron emission current by neutral gas ionization in a weakly-ionized deuterium plasma,</a>  J. Applied Physics 118, 103302 (2015).

16.	Yu, J.H., De Temmerman, G., Doerner, R.P., Pitts, R.A. and Van Den Berg, M.A., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/75.pdf ">The effect of transient temporal pulse shape on surface temperature and tungsten damage,</a>  Nucl. Fusion 55, 093027 (2015).

17.	Yu, J.H., Baldwin, M.J., Doerner, R.P., Dittmar, T., Hakola, A., Höschen, T., Likonen, J., Nishijima, D., Toudeshki, H.H., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/74.pdf ">Transient heating effects on tungsten: Ablation of Be layers and enhanced fuzz growth,</a>  J. Nucl. Mat. 463, 299 (2015).

18.	Yu, J.H., Doerner, R.P., Dittmar, T., Höschen, T., Schwarz-Selinger, T., and Baldwin, M.J., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/73.pdf ">ITER-relevant transient heat loads on tungsten exposed to plasma and beryllium,</a>  Phys. Scr. T159, 014036 (2014).

19.	Hollmann, E.M., Austin, M.E., Boedo, J.A., Brooks, N.H., Commaux, N., Eidietis, N.W., Humphreys, D.A., Izzo, V.A., James, A.N., Jernigan, T.C., Loarte, A., Martin-Solis, J., Moyer, R.A., Muñoz-Burgos, J.M., Parks, P.B., Rudakov, D.L., Strait, E.J., Tsui, C., Van Zeeland, M.A., Wesley, J.C., and Yu, J.H., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/72.pdf ">Control and dissipation of runaway electron beams created during rapid shutdown experiments in DIII-D,</a>  Nucl. Fusion 53 083004 (2013).

20.	Baldwin, M.J., Schwarz-Selinger, T., Yu, J.H., Doerner, R.P., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/71.pdf ">TMAP-7 simulation of D2 thermal release data from Be co-deposited layers,</a>  J. Nucl. Mat., 438, S967 (2013).

21.	Yu, J.H., Baldwin, M.J., Doerner, R.P., Pitts, R.A, Smirnov, R.D., Xu, H.W., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/70.pdf ">Desorption of deuterium from beryllium codeposits using flash heating,</a>  J. Nucl. Mat., 438, S1150 (2013).

22.	Yu, J.H., Hollmann, E.M., Commaux, N., Eidietis, N.W., Humphreys, D.A., James, A.N., Jernigan, T.C., and Moyer, R.A., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/69.pdf ">Visible imaging and spectroscopy of disruption runaway electrons in DIII-D,</a>  Phys. Plasmas 20, 042113 (2013).

23.	Chrobak, C.P., Van Zeeland, M.A., Moyer, R.A., and Yu, J.H., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/68.pdf ">Restoring transmission of irradiated image fiber bundles,</a>  Rev. Sci. Instrum. 83, 10E514 (2012).

24.	Thakur, S.C., McCarren, D., Lee, T., Fedorczak, N., Manz, P., Scime, E.E., Tynan, G.R., Xu, M., and Yu, J., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/67.pdf ">Comparison of azimuthal ion velocity profiles using Mach probes, time delay estimation, and laser induced fluorescence in a linear plasma device,</a>  Rev. Sci. Instrum. 83, 10D708 (2012).

25.	Xu, M., Tynan, G.R., Diamond, P.H., Manz, P., Holland, C., Fedorczak, N., Thakur, S.C., Yu, J.H., Zhao, K.J., Dong, J.Q., Cheng, J., Hong, W.Y., Yan, L.W., Yang, Q.W., Song, X.M., Huang, Y., Cai, L.Z., Zhong, W.L., Shi, Z.B., Ding, X.T., Duan, X.R., Liu, Y., and the HL-2A Team, <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/66.pdf ">Frequency-Resolved Nonlinear Turbulent Energy Transfer into Zonal Flows in Strongly Heated L-Mode Plasmas in the HL-2A Tokamak,</a>  Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 245001 (2012).

26.	Eidietis, N.W., Commaux, N., Hollmann, E.M., Humphreys, D.A., Jernigan, T.C., Moyer, R.A., Strait, E.J., VanZeeland, M.A., Wesley, J.C., and Yu, J.H., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/65.pdf ">Control of post-disruption runaway electron beams in DIII-D,</a>  Phys. Plasmas 19, 056109 (2012).

27.	James, A.N., Austin, M.E., Commaux, N., Eidietis, N.W., Evans, T.E., Hollmann, E.M., Humphreys, D.A., Hyatt, A.W., Izzo, V.A., Jernigan, T.C., La Haye, R.J., Parks, P.B., Strait, E.J., Tynan, G.R., Wesley, J.C., and Yu, J.H., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/64.pdf ">Measurements of hard x-ray emission from runaway electrons in DIII-D,</a>  Nuc. Fusion 52, 013007 (2011).

28.	Kajita, S., Nishijima, D., Doerner, R., Umstadter, K., Yu, J., Ohno, N., and Ueda, Y., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/63.pdf ">Beryllium erosion induced by transient heat loads and subsequent reactions in a deuterium plasma,</a>  J. Nucl. Mater. 420, 252 (2011).

29.	Manz, P., Xu, M., Mueller, S.H., Fedorczak, N., Thakur, S.C., Yu, J.H., and Tynan, G.R., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/62.pdf ">Plasma Blob Generation due to Cooperative Elliptic Instability,</a>  Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 195004 (2011).

30.	Hollmann, E.M., Parks, P.B., Humphreys, D.A., Brooks, N.H., Commaux, N., Eidietis, N., Evans, T.E., Isler, R., James, A.N., Jernigan, T.C., Munoz, J., Strait, E.J., Tsui, C., Wesley, J., and Yu, J.H., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/61.pdf ">Effect of applied toroidal electric field on the growth/decay of plateau-phase runaway electron currents in DIII-D,</a>  Nuc. Fusion 51, 103026 (2011).

31.	Commaux, N., Baylor, L.R., Combs, S.K., Eidietis, N.W., Evans, T.E., Foust, C.R., Hollmann, E.M., Humphreys, D.A., Izzo, V.A., James, A.N., Jernigan, T.C., Meitner, S.J., Parks, P.B., Wesley, J.C., and Yu, J.H., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/60.pdf ">Novel rapid shutdown strategies for runaway electron suppression in DIII-D,</a>  Nuc. Fusion 51, 103001 (2011).

32.	Jackson, G.L., Humphreys, D.A., Hyatt, A.W., Lohr, J.M., Luce, T.C., and Yu, J.H., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/59.pdf ">Noninductive plasma initiation and startup in the DIII-D tokamak,</a>  Nucl. Fusion 51, 083015 (2011).

33.	Hollmann, E.M., Arnoux, G., Commaux, N., Eidietis, N.W., Evans, T.E., Granetz, R.S., Huber, A., Humphreys, D.A., Izzo, V.A., James, A.N., Jernigan, T.C., Lehnen, M., Maddaluno, G., Paccagnella, R., Parks, P.B., Philipps, V., Reinke, M.L., Rudakov, D.L., Saint-Laurent, F., Sizyuk, V., Strait, E.J., Wesley, J.C., Wong, C.P.C., and Yu, J.H., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/58.pdf ">Plasma-surface interactions during tokamak disruptions and rapid shutdowns,</a>  J. Nucl. Mater. 415, S27 (2011).

34.	Nishijima, D., Baldwin, M.J., Doerner, R.P., and Yu, J.H., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/57.pdf ">Sputtering properties of tungsten 'fuzzy' surfaces,</a>  J. Nucl. Mater. 415, S96 (2011).

35.	James, A.N., Hollmann, E.M., Yu, J.H., Austin, M.E., Commaux, N., Evans, T., Humphreys, D.A., Jernigan, T.C., Parks, P.B., Putvinski, S., Strait, E.J., Tynan, G.R., and Wesley, J., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/56.pdf ">Pellet Interaction with Runaway Electrons,</a>  J. Nucl. Mater. 415, S849 (2011).

36.	Baldwin, M.J., Lynch, T.C., Doerner, R.P., and Yu, J. H., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/55.pdf ">Nanostructure Formation on Tungsten Exposed to Low-Pressure Rf Helium Plasmas: A study of ion energy threshold and early stage growth,</a>  J. Nucl. Mater. 415, S104 (2011).

37.	Xu, M, Tynan, G.R., Diamond, P.H., Holland, C., Yu, J.H., Yan, Z., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/54.pdf ">Generation of a sheared plasma rotation by emission, propagation, and absorption of drift wave packets,</a>  Phys. Rev. Lett., 107, 055003 (2011).

38.	Yu, J.H., Smirnov, R.D., Rudakov, D.L., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/53.pdf ">Dust appearance rates during neutral beam injection and after oxygen bake in the DIII-D tokamak,</a>  J. Nucl. Mater. 415, S1102 (2011).

39.	Buttery, R.J., Gerhardt, S., La Haye, R.J., Liu, Y.Q., Reimerdes, H., Sabbagh, S., Chu, M.S., Osborne, T.H., Park, J.-K., Pinsker, R.I., Strait, E.J., Yu, J.H. and the DIII-D and NSTX Teams, <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/52.pdf ">The impact of 3D fields on tearing mode stability of H-modes,</a>  Nucl. Fusion 51, 073016 (2011).

40.	Leuer, J.A., Cunningham, G., Mueller, D., Brooks, N.H., Eidietis, N.W., Humphreys, D.A., Hyatt, A.W., Jackson, G.L., Lohr, J., Politzer, P.A., Pinsker, R.I., Prater, R., Taylor, P.L., Walker, M.L., Budny, R.V., Gates, D.A., Nagy, A., Hahn, S-H., Oh, Y-K., Yoon, S-W., Yu, J.H., Murakami, M., Park, J.M. and Sontag, A.C., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/51.pdf ">Solenoid-free startup experiments in DIII-D,</a>  Nucl. Fusion 51, 063038 (2011).

41.	Izzo, V.A., Hollmann, E.M., James, A.N., Yu, J.H., Humphreys, D.A., Lao, L.L., Parks, P.B., Sieck, P.E., Wesley, J.C., Granetz, R.S., Olynyk, G.M., and Whyte, D.G., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/50.pdf ">Runaway electron confinement modelling for rapid shutdown scenarios in DIII-D, Alcator C-Mod and ITER,</a>  Nucl. Fusion 51, 063032 (2011).

42.	Pace, D.C., Fisher, R.K., García-Muñoz, M., Heidbrink, W.W., McKee, G.R., Murakami, M., Muscatello, C.M., Nazikian, R., Park, J.M., Petty, C.C., Rhodes, T.L., Staebler, G.M., Van Zeeland, M.A., Waltz, R.E., White, R.B., Yu, J.H., Zhang, W., and Zhu, Y.B., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/49.pdf ">Transport of energetic ions due to sawteeth, Alfven eigenmodes and microturbulence,</a>  Nucl. Fusion 51, 043012 (2011).

43.	Commaux, N., Baylor, L.R., Jernigan, T.C., Hollmann, E.M., Parks, P.B., Humphreys, D.A., Wesley, J.C. and Yu, J.H., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/48.pdf ">Demonstration of rapid shutdown using large shattered deuterium pellet injection in DIII-D,</a>  Nucl. Fusion 50, 112001 (2010).

44.	Van Zeeland, M.A., Yu, J.H., Heidbrink, W.W., Brooks, N.H., Burrell, K.H., Chu, M.S., Hyatt, A.W., Muscatello, C., Nazikian, R., Pablant, N.A., Pace, D.C., Solomon, W.M. and Wade, M.R., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/47.pdf ">Imaging key aspects of fast ion physics in the DIII-D tokamak,</a>  Nucl. Fusion 50, 084002 (2010).

45.	Hollmann, E.M., Commaux, N., Eidietis, N.W., Evans, T.E., Humphreys, D.A., James, A.N., Jernigan, T.C., Parks, P.B., Strait, E.J., Wesley, J.C., Yu, J.H., Austin, M.E., Baylor, L.R., Brooks, N.H., Izzo, V.A., Jackson, G.L., Van Zeeland, M.A., and Wu, W., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/46.pdf ">Experiments in DIII-D toward achieving rapid shutdown with runaway electron suppression,</a>  Phys. Plasmas 17, 056117 (2010).

46.	Jackson, G.L., Politzer, P.A., Humphreys, D.A., Casper, T.A., Hyatt, A.W., Leuer, J.A., Lohr, J., Luce, T.C., Van Zeeland, M.A., and Yu, J.H., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/45.pdf ">Understanding and predicting the dynamics of tokamak discharges during startup and rampdown,</a>  Phys. Plasmas 17, 056116 (2010).

47.	Yan, Z., Xu, M., Diamond, P.H., Holland, C., Muller, S.H., Tynan, G.R., Yu, J.H., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/44.pdf ">Intrinsic Rotation from a Residual Stress at the Boundary of a Cylindrical Laboratory Plasma,</a>  Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 065002 (2010).

48.	Xu, M., Tynan, G.R., Holland, C., Yan, Z., Muller, S.H., and Yu, J.H., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/43.pdf ">Fourier-domain study of drift turbulence driven sheared flow in a laboratory plasma,</a>  Phys. Plasmas 17, 032311 (2010).

49.	Yan, Z., Tynan, G.R., Holland, C., Xu, M., Müller, S.H., and Yu, J.H., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/42.pdf ">Shear flow and drift wave turbulence dynamics in a cylindrical plasma device,</a>  Phys. Plasmas 17, 032302 (2010).

50.	Yan, Z., Tynan, G.R., Holland, C., Xu, M., Muller, S.H., and Yu, J.H., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/41.pdf ">Scaling properties of turbulence driven shear flow,</a>  Phys. Plasmas 17, 012302 (2010).

51.	Van Zeeland, M.A., Yu, J.H., Brooks, N.H., Heidbrink, W.W., Burrell, K.H., Groebner, R.J., Hyatt, A.W., Luce, T.C., Pablant, N., Solomon, W.M. and Wade, M.R., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/40.pdf ">Active and passive spectroscopic imaging in the DIII-D tokamak,</a>  Plasma Phys. Control. Fusion 52, 045006 (2010).

52.	Park, J.M., Murakami, M., Petty, C.C., Heidbrink, W.W., Osborne, T.H., Holcomb, C.T., Van Zeeland, M.A., Prater, R., Luce, T.C., Wade, M.R., Austin, M.E., Brooks, N.H., Budny, R.V., Challis, C., DeBoo, J.C., DeGrassie, J.S., Ferron, J.R., Gohil, P., Hobirk, J., Hollmann, E.M., Hong, R.M., Hyatt, A.W., Lohr, J., Lanctot, M.J., Makowski, M.A., McCune, D.C., Politzer, P.A., St John, H.E., Suzuki, T., West, W.P., Unterberg, E.A., and Yu, J.H., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/39.pdf ">Validation of on- and off-axis neutral beam current drive against experiment in DIII-D,</a>  Phys. Plasmas 16, 092508 (2009).

53.	Heidbrink, W.W., Murakami, M., Park, J.M., Petty, C.C., Van Zeeland, M.A., Yu, J.H., and McKee, G.R., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/38.pdf ">Beam-Ion Confinement for Different Injection Geometries,</a>  Plasma Phys. Control. Fusion 51, 125001 (2009).

54.	Tynan, G.R., Diamond, P.H., Holland, C., Muller, S.H., Xu, M., Yan, Z., Yu, J., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/37.pdf ">Nonlinear dynamics of shear flows and plasma rotation in a simple laboratory plasma system,</a>  Plasma Phys. Control. Fusion 51, 124055 (2009).

55.	Rudakov, D.L., Wong, C.P.C., Litnovsky, A., Wampler, W.R., Boedo, J.A., Brooks, N.H., Fenstermacher, M.E., Groth, M., Hollmann, E.M., Jacob, W., Krasheninnikov, S. I., Krieger, K., Lasnier, C.J., Leonard, A.W., McLean, A.G., Marot, M., Moyer, R.A., Petrie, T.W., Philipps, V., Smirnov, R.D., Stangeby, P.C., Watkins, J.G., West, W.P. and Yu, J.H., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/36.pdf ">Overview of the recent DiMES and MiMES experiments in DIII-D,</a>  Phys. Scr. 2009, 014007 (2009).

56.	Groth, M., Boedo, J.A., Brooks, N.H., Isler, R.C., Leonard, A.W., Porter, G.D., Watkins, J.G., West, W.P., Bray, B.D., Fenstermacher, M.E., Groebner, R.J., Moyer, R.A., Rudakov, D.L., Yu, J.H. and  Zeng, L., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/35.pdf ">Effect of cross-field drifts on flows in the main scrape-off-layer of DIII-D L-mode plasmas,</a>  Nucl. Fusion 49, 115002 (2009).

57.	Müller, S.H., Holland, C., Tynan, G.R., Yu, J.H., and Naulin, V., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/34.pdf ">Source formulation for electron-impact ionization for fluid plasma simulations,</a>  Plasma Phys. Control. Fusion 51, 105014 (2009).

58.	Rudakov, D.L., Litnovsky, A., West, W.P., Yu, J.H., Boedo, J.A., Bray, B.D., Brezinsek, S., Brooks, N.H., Fenstermacher, M.E., Groth, M., Hollmann, E.M., Huber, A., Hyatt, A.W., Krasheninnikov, S.I., Lasnier, C.J., McLean, A.G., Moyer, R.A., Yu, A., Pigarov, Philipps, V., Pospieszczyk, A., Smirnov, R.D., Sharpe, J.P., Solomon, W.M., Watkins, J.G., Wong, C.P.C. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/33.pdf ">Dust Studies in DIII-D and TEXTOR,</a>  Nucl. Fusion 49, 085022 (2009).

59.	Murakami, M., Park, J.M., Petty, C.C., Luce, T.C., Heidbrink, W.W., Osborne, T.H., Prater, R., Wade, M.R., Anderson, P.M., Austin, M.E., Brooks, N.H., Budny, R.V., Challis, C.D., DeBoo, J.C., DeGrassie, J.S., Ferron, J.R., Gohil, P., Hobrik, J., Holcomb, C.T., Hollmann, E.M., Hong, R.M., Hyatt, A.W., Lohr, J., Lanctot, M.J., Makowski, M.A., McCune, D.C., Politzer, P.A., Scoville, J.T., St. John, H.E., Suzuki, T., Taylor, T.S., West, W.P., Unterberg, E.A., Van Zeeland, M.A., Yu, J.H. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/32.pdf ">Off-axis neutral beam current drive for advanced scenario development in DIII-D,</a>  Nucl. Fusion 49, 065031 (2009).

60.	Yu, J.H., Van Zeeland, M.A., Chu, M.S., Izzo, V., La Haye, R.J. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/31.pdf ">Fast imaging of transients and coherent magnetohydrodynamic modes in DIII-D,</a>  Phys. Plasmas 16, 056114 (2009).

61.	Evans, T.E., Yu, J.H., Jakubowski, M.W., Schmitz, O., Watkins, J.G., Moyer, R.A. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/30.pdf ">A conceptual model of the magnetic topology and nonlinear dynamics of ELMs,</a>  J. Nucl. Mater. 390-391, 789 (2009).

62.	Rudakov, D.L., Boedo, J.A., Yu, J.H., Brooks, N.H., Fenstermacher, M.E., Groth, M., Hollmann, E.M., Lasnier, C.J., McLean, A.G., Moyer, R.A., Stangeby, P.C., Tynan, G.R., Wampler, W.R., Watkins, J.G., West, W.P., Wong, C.P.C., Bastasz, R.J., Buchenauer, D., Whaley, J. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/29.pdf ">Plasma interactions with the outboard chamber wall in DIII-D,</a>  J. Nucl. Mater. 390-391, 785 (2009).

63.	Groth, M., Porter, G.D., Boedo, J.A., Brooks, N.H., Isler, R.C., West, W.P., Bray, B.D., Fenstermacher, M.E., Groebner, R.J., Leonard, A.W., Moyer, R.A., Rognlien, T.D., Watkins, J.G., Yu, J.H. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/28.pdf ">Measurements and simulations of scrape-off layer flows in the DIII-D Tokamak,</a>  J. Nucl. Mater. 390-391, 343 (2009).

64.	Yu, J.H., Rudakov, D.L., Pigarov, A. Yu, Smirnov, R.D., Brooks, N.H., Muller, S.H., West, W.P. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/27.pdf ">Fast camera imaging of dust in the DIII-D tokamak,</a>  J. Nucl. Mater. 390-391, 216 (2009).

65.	Borodin, D., Kirschner, A, Kreter, A., Philipps, P., Pospieszczyk, A., Ding, R., Doerner, R., Nishijima, D., Yu, J. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/26.pdf ">Modelling of Be transport in PSI experiments at PISCES-B,</a>  J. Nucl. Mater. 390-391, 106 (2009).

66.	Xu, M., Tynan, G.R., Holland, C., Yan, Z., Muller, S.H., Yu, J.H. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/25.pdf ">Study of nonlinear spectral energy transfer in frequency domain,</a>  Phys. Plasmas 16, 042312 (2009).

67.	Van Zeeland, M.A., Heidbrink, W.W., Yu, J.H., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/24.pdf ">Fast ion Dα imaging in the DIII-D tokamak,</a>  Plasma Phys. Control. Fusion 51, 055001 (2009).

68.	Smirnov, R.D., Krasheninnikov, S.I., Yu, J.H., Yu, A. Pigarov, Rosenberg, M., Terry, J.L. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/23.pdf ">On visibility of carbon dust particles in fusion plasmas with fast framing cameras,</a>  Plasma Phys. Control. Fusion 51, 055017 (2009).

69.	Müller, S.H., Theiler, C., Fasoli, A., Furno, I., Labit, B., Tynan, G.R., Xum, M., Yan, Z., Yu, J.H., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/22.pdf ">Studies of blob formation, propagation and transport mechanisms in basic experimental plasmas (TORPEX and CSDX),</a>  Plasma Phys. Control. Fusion 51, 055020 (2009).

70.	Krasheninnikov, S.I., Yu, A. Pigarov, Smirnov, R.D., Rosenberg, M., Tanaka, Y., Benson, D.J., Soboleva, T.K., Rognlien, T.D., Mendis, D.A., Bray, B.D., Rudakov, D.L., Yu, J.H., West, W.P., Roquemore, A.L., Skinner, C.H., Terry, J.L., Lipschultz, B., Bader, A., Granetz, R.S., Pitcher, C.S., Ohno, N., Takamura, S., Masuzaki, S., Ashikawa, N., Shiratani, M., Tokitani, M., Kumazawa, R., Asakura, N., Nakano, T.,  Litnovsky, A.M., Maqueda, R., the LHD Experimental Group, <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/21.pdf ">Recent progress in understanding the behavior of dust in fusion devices,</a>  Plasma Phys. Control. Fusion 50, 124054 (2008).

71.	Ratynskaia, S., Castaldo, C., Giovannozzi, E., Rudakov, D., Morfill, G., Horanyi, M., Yu, J.H., Maddaluno, G. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/20.pdf ">In situ dust detection in fusion devices</a> , Plasma Phys. Control. Fusion 50, 124046 (2008)

72.	Yu, J.H., Van Zeeland, M.A. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/19.pdf ">Spectrally filtered fast imaging of internal magnetohydrodynamic activity in the DIII-D tokamak,</a>  Rev. Sci. Instrum. 79, 10F516 (2008).

73.	Rudakov, D.L., Yu, J.H., Boedo, J.A., Hollmann, E.M., Krasheninnikov, S.I., Moyer, R.A., Muller, S.H., Yu, A., Pigarov, Rosenberg, M., Smirnov, R.D., West, W.P., Boivin, R.L., Bray, B.D., Brooks, N.H., Hyatt, A.W., Wong, C.P.C., Roquemore, A.L., Skinner, C.H., Solomon, W.M., Ratynskaia, S., Fenstermacher, M.E., Groth, M., Lasnier, C.J., McLean, A.G., Stangeby, P.C. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/18.pdf ">Dust measurements in tokamaks (invited),</a>  Rev. Sci. Instrum. 79, 10F303 (2008).

74.	Hollmann, E.M., Jernigan, T.C., Parks, P.B., Boedo, J.A., Evans, T.E., Groth, M., Humphreys, D.A., James, A.N., Lanctot, M.J., Nishijima, D., Rudakov, D.L., Scott, H.A., Strait, E.J., Van Zeeland, M.A., Wesley, J.C., West, W.P., Wu W., Yu, J.H. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/17.pdf ">Measurements of injected impurity assimilation during massive gas injection experiments in DIII-D,</a>  Nucl. Fusion 48, 115007 (2008).

75.	Van Zeeland, M.A., Yu, J.H., Chu, M.S., Burrell, K.H., La Haye, R.J., Luce, T.C., Nazikian, R., Solomon, W.M., West, W.P. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/16.pdf ">Tearing mode structure in the DIII-D tokamak through spectrally filtered fast visible bremsstrahlung imaging,</a>  Nucl. Fusion 48, 092002 (2008).

76.	Yan, Z., Yu, J.H., Holland, C., Xum, M., Müller, S.H., Tynan, G.R., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/15.pdf ">Statistical analysis of the turbulent Reynolds stress and its link to the shear flow generation in a cylindrical laboratory plasma device,</a>  Phys. Plasmas 15, 092309 (2008).

77.	Yu, J.H., Boedo, J.A., Hollmann, E.M., Moyer, R.A., Rudakov, D.L., Snyder, P.B. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/14.pdf ">Fast imaging of edge localized mode structure and dynamics in DIII-D,</a>  Phys. Plasmas 15, 032504 (2008).

78.	Granetz, R.S., Hollmann, E.M., Whyte, D.G., Izzo, V.A., Antar, G.Y., Bader, A., Bakhtiari, M., Biewer, T., Boedo, J.A., Evans, T.E., Hutchinson, I.H., Jernigan, T.C., Gray, D.S., Groth, M., Humphreys, D.A., Lasnier, C.J., Moyer, R.A., Parks, P.B., Reinke, M.L., Rudakov, D.L., Strait, E.J., Terry, J.L., Wesley, J., West, W.P., Wurden, G., Yu, J.H. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/13.pdf ">Gas Jet Disruption Mitigation Studies on Alcator C-Mod and DIII-D,</a>  Nucl. Fusion 47, 1086–1091 (2007).

79.	Yu, J.H., Holland, C.H., Tynan, G.R., Antar, G., Yan, Z. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/12.pdf ">Examination of the Velocity Time-Delay-Estimation Technique,</a>  J. Nucl. Mater. 363-365, 728 (2007).

80.	Holland, C., Tynan, G.R., Yu, J.H., James, A., Nishijima, D., Shimada, M., Taheri, N.  <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/11.pdf ">Numerical Simulations of Collisional Drift-Wave Turbulence in a Magnetized Plasma Column,</a>  Plasma Phys. Control. Fusion 49, A109–A119 (2007).

81.	Antar, G.Y., Yu, J.H., Tynan, G. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/10.pdf ">The Origin of Convective Structures in the Scrape-Off Layer of Linear Magnetic Fusion Devices Investigated by Fast Imaging</a> , Phys. Plasmas 14, 022301 (2007).

82.	Oyarzabal, E., Yu, J.H., Doerner, R.P., Tynan, G.R., Schmid, K. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/9.pdf ">Molybdenum Angular Sputtering Distribution under Low Energy Xenon Ion Bombardment</a> , J. Appl. Phys. 100, 063301 (2006).

83.	Xu, H., Nikroo, A., Wall, J.R., Doerner, R., Baldwin, M., Yu, J.H. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/8.pdf ">Be Coatings on Spherical Surface for NIF Target Development,</a>  Fusion Sc. and Tech. 49, 778-785 (2006).

84.	Holland, C., Yu, J.H., James, A., Nishijima, D., Shimada, M., Taheri, N., Tynan, G.R. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/7.pdf ">Observation of Turbulent-driven Shear Flow in a Cylindrical Laboratory Plasma Device,</a>  Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 195002 (2006).

85.	Tynan, G.R., Holland, C., Yu, J.H., James, A., Nishijima, D., Shimada, M., Taheri, N. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/6.pdf ">Observation of Turbulent-driven Shear Flow in a Cylindrical Laboratory Plasma Device,</a>  Plasma Phys. Control. Fusion 48, S51-S73 (2006).

86.	Yu, J.H., Driscoll, C.F., O'Neil, T.M., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/5.pdf ">Phase Mixing and Echoes in a Pure Electron Plasma,</a>  Phys. Plasmas 12, 055701 (2005), invited paper.

87.	Yu, J.H., O’Neil, T.M., Driscoll, C.F. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/4.pdf ">Fluid Echoes in a Pure Electron Plasma,</a>  Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 025005 (2005).

88.	Kabantsev, A.A., Yu, J.H. Lynch, R.B., Driscoll, C.F., <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/3.pdf ">Trapped Particles and Asymmetry-Induced Transport,</a>  Phys. Plasmas 10, 1628 (2003).

89.	Yu, J.H., Driscoll, C.F. <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/2.pdf ">Diocotron Wave Echoes in a Pure Electron Plasma,</a>  IEEE Trans. on Plasma Science 30, 24 (2002).

90.	﻿Kabantsev, A.A., Driscoll, C.F., Hilsabeck, T.J., O’Neil, T.M., Yu, J.H.  <a href = " {{ site.url }}/assets/publications/1.pdf ">Trapped-Particle Asymmetry Modes in Single-Species Plasmas,</a>  Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 225002 (2001).

<a href="#top">Go to top</a>
